enum in Java :
--------------
enum is a keyword in java which is introduced from JDK 1.5V onwards.

enum is similar to a class because for enum also .class file will be created internally.

If we want to declare Universal constants then we should use enum 
concept, all the Universal constants must be separated by comma and 
at the end ; is optional.

Example :
---------
Color.java
------------
public enum Color 
{
  RED, BLUE, PINK  //public + static + final (enum constants)
}

All the enum constants are by default public static and final

Compiler will automatically generate .class file as shown below :

Color.class
------------
public final class Color extends java.lang.Enum
{
  public static final Color RED = new Color();
  public static final Color BLUE = new Color();
  public static final Color PINK = new Color();

  public static Color[] values()
  {
     //return enum array;
  }
}

An enum we can define inside a class, Outside of the class and inside a 
method as well. If we define inside a class then we can declare an enum with private, protected, public, static modifiers. We can't declare final and abstract.

Whenever compiler generates .class file then compiler will automatically add a static method called values() to fetch the enum object, the return type of this method is enum array.

    public enum[] values()


Every enum constant constains order position which starts from number 0, we can retrieve the order position by using ordinal() method of Enum class.
               public final int ordinal()


Every enum impliciltly extends from java.lang.Enum class so enum can't extend any other class but it can implement an interface.

Every enum is impliciltly final so any class can't extends an enum.

Every enum first line is reserved for enum constants so we can't write anything in the first line and that is the reason static block is always executed after constructor.

As we know, an enum is implicitly  a class so we can write static, non static variable, static and non static block, static and non static method.

A constructor defined inside an enum must be either private OR default.

Every enum constants are Object of type enum.

At the time of loading enum class, static variable will be executed so appropriate constructor will be executed.

An enum represents Universal constant so, We can pass enum constants in switch case statement.

In Enum class name() and ordinal() both are final methods so we can't override hence we can't change the name and order position.

We can compare two enum constants by using == operator OR final equals(Object obj) method given by Enum class.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------














